hw/xilinx/doc/BOARDS_INSTALLATION.md, before:

# Board installation
In the following the required installation steps for the supported boards

## Nexys, Basys, Arty, Zybo and Zedboard Families
Verified on Vivado 2022.1 (should be working from 2015.1 onward):
   - Download the [Digilent Legacy board files](https://github.com/Digilent/vivado-boards/archive/master.zip)
   - Extract the downloaded zip and copy new/board_files/* into \<VIVADO_DIR>/data/boards/board_files
   - Restart vivado

## Alveo U250
Verified on Vivado 2023.1:
   - Download the [Alveo U250 board files](https://www.xilinx.com/bin/public/openDownload?filename=au250_board_files_20200616.zip)
   - Extract the downloaded zip into \<VIVADO_DIR>/data/xhub/boards/XilinxBoardStore/boards/Xilinx/
   - Restart Vivado

### XDMA maximum BAR size
> The safe (and adopted) maximum BAR size is 32 MB (see [XBAR config](../ips/hpc/xlnx_xdma/config.tcl)) on the MSI Z590 PLUS (MS-7D11) motherboard, but it strictly depends on the motherboard.

> **WARNING** If you use a greater BAR size your system BIOS could not be able to allocate the required space for the PCIe device, hence it cannot be able to boot properly and the entire system will crash.

Commit message:

[board/u280] Port on U280 (#146)
- [hw/xilinx] add au280.xdc constraints file
- [hw/xilinx] add au280 configuration in openocd.cfg
- [hw/xilinx] Disable MicroblazeV for U280 builds (related to #55)
- [config] add env vars for the au280 board in settings.sh 
- [doc] add documentation about au280 in BOARDS_INSTALLATION.md 

> Note: the Alveo U280 is EOL (end of life) as stated [here](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/question/0D54U00008iSoYiSAK/whats-happening-to-u280?language=en_US).
Vivado 2023.1 is the last version to support it. This implies that the microblazeV cannot be used on the Alveo U280.

Test plan:
-  test on Alveo U250 MicroblazeV_RV32
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
-  test on Alveo U250 MicroblazeV_RV64
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
- test on Alveo U250 CV32EP
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts
- test on Alveo U250 IBEX
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts
-  test on Alveo U250 CV64A6
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts
- test on Alveo U280 CV32EP
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts
- test on Alveo U280 IBEX
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts
-  test on Alveo U280 CV64A6
    - [x] hello_world
    - [x] echo
    - [x] interrupts

hw/xilinx/doc/BOARDS_INSTALLATION.md, after:

# Board installation
In the following the required installation steps for the supported boards

## Nexys, Basys, Arty, Zybo and Zedboard Families
Verified on Vivado 2022.1 (should be working from 2015.1 onward):
   - Download the [Digilent Legacy board files](https://github.com/Digilent/vivado-boards/archive/master.zip)
   - Extract the downloaded zip and copy new/board_files/* into \<VIVADO_DIR>/data/boards/board_files
   - Restart vivado

## Alveo U250
Verified on Vivado 2023.1 and 2024.1:
   - Download the [Alveo U250 board files](https://www.xilinx.com/bin/public/openDownload?filename=au250_board_files_20200616.zip)
   - Extract the downloaded zip into \<VIVADO_DIR>/data/xhub/boards/XilinxBoardStore/boards/Xilinx/
   - Restart Vivado

## Alveo U280
The Alveo U280 is no longer supported by AMD Xilinx, thus Vivado 2023.1 is the last version to support it:
   - Download the [Alveo U280 board files](https://www.xilinx.com/bin/public/openDownload?filename=au280_boardfiles_v1_2.zip)
   - Extract the downloaded zip into \<VIVADO_DIR>/data/xhub/boards/XilinxBoardStore/boards/Xilinx/
   - Restart Vivado

### XDMA maximum BAR size
> The safe (and adopted) maximum BAR size is 32 MB (see [XBAR config](../ips/hpc/xlnx_xdma/config.tcl)) on the MSI Z590 PLUS (MS-7D11) motherboard, but it strictly depends on the motherboard.

> **WARNING** If you use a greater BAR size your system BIOS could not be able to allocate the required space for the PCIe device, hence it cannot be able to boot properly and the entire system will crash.
